okay okay so I've been at the game for a
minute I've been at the game for a
minute we have lots of stuff to do so I
just write something down here so we
need to make the frame
for
uh mounting the power
supply
PCB you know but
breadboard the
um and the shooter
which which needs to be
redesigned to use the bearings CU I I
bought some bearings I don't know if you
guys saw saw this but I bought some um I
think I did some CAD with it it's not
like it's not like it matters um oh yeah
and then the hopper then we need to fix
then we need to redo the hopper for the
high torque DC motor and
test um
um yeah so in the shooter okay so let's
break this up so we have the
frame which should be the easiest thing
so maybe I'll do that
because here let's just
um let's just do it right
now so in here um uh yeah we'll do it in
here um um this is the table yeah okay
so it it's actually almost this it's
funny that they do overlapping
um huh that's so
interesting that the did I export it as
a step
file I must have oh yeah there you go
that's so interesting just calls it none
um okay so let's redo
this so we're just going to delete this
right we're just going to delete this we
don't need
this okay so um this is what I had in
mind so we're just going to
do um how should we do this we'll start
with we'll start with the top so this so
I got 2et by 2et soit we need to change
the
um uh why do I always forget how to do
this is it this oh wait
um workspace units oh yeah we're in foot
um that should be okay so now we need to
make a w
oh and this is going to be um
two by
two
okay then we're going to extrude this
and I think it's
516 um no hold on let me get let me go
find a tape measure for
okay because they didn't have the half
inch like I wanted so this is what we
got and it's
um what the [__] is
that oh wait it says it on here
yeah it's a little it's actually a
little under 2
feet no it's not it's apparently it's
sold I guess cuz of compression or
something that it's sold at uh 23 and
3/4 but it's it's not okay 703 in let's
see if that's right it's so hard to read
these [__] things
like
1116 let's
see 11 over
um oh you know what it might have been
like
uh uh
2220 okay does it really
matter the only thing that it would
matter for
is we want to get the height right but
let's just get it rough roughly down so
we're going to make it um but that's of
an inch so we need to do
maybe we should switch this to
inch can
you change workspace units to
inch all
right um okay so we're going to extrude
this by
1116 okay and then so this is a 2T X 2T
board so now we want to sketch on here
and let's see where's the front
oh wait did I do
this I kind of didn't want to do it like
this so we're going to undo this oh yeah
see that that's that's right okay so
we're going to delete this okay we're
going to sketch on here make a
rectangle this is going to be 24 by
24 and we're going to extrude this by
1116 and then we're going to sketch on
here okay and so this is the top so yes
we're going from the bottom this is
where we went to sketch on is that but
that's not how it's doing it so we want
to sketch on
here
okay and we want to I don't think it
matters oh let's do this too we're going
to make a line it's be construction and
we're just going to do
okay
uh so this is going to
be okay uh let me ask chat
gbt the
hell uh when modeling in CAD wood Parts
I know that uh when you buy a 2x4 it's
not actually a 2x4 because it shrinks uh
I guess cuz of water loss or something
but should I model it as what they sell
it by which is like a 2x4 or should I
model it by what it actually is what's
the best
practice not the nominal yeah I mean why
would you use the nominal that would be
insane yeah so we're going to do 1.5 by
3.5 so this is going to be
3.5 and then this is going to be 1.5
okay now we can just
do um
well let's see we can just extrude this
and this is going to
be from the bottom one foot I mean we're
sort of just making this up as we go we
could just say one
foot but this is a new part okay so now
we can
do uh maybe it was better to
um mirror it in the
sketch this thing
mirror
this uh yeah but you can't just like
okay wait so forget it so what we're
going to do is make
a plane it's a mid plane
s this face and this face
okay and then we're going to do another
one of
those going select this face and this
face I know that it's probably already
in there with the normal things but I
just want to be safe and this guarantees
it okay so now we can do a mirror we're
going to mirror this part on this plane
no this
plane and it's not an ad it's a
new okay and now we want to do another
mirror and we want to just hit this guy
and this guy and and then on this plane
we want to do this and then we want to
make it a new okay great so we have the
legs so now on
here we want to make a rectangle and
it's going to be the exact
same is that locked in okay I guess
that's locked in so now we can sketch
this and this is also going to be
1116 um oh that's weird what happened
there we need to take this sketch or
this extrude and let's add that
profile okay and this is a new so that's
good okay so basically the idea here is
the turret sits up here the power supply
actually looking at it the the one ft of
room there is actually a lot and I'm
wondering how we want to do cabling
because whatever we're just going to
have to iterate cuz design is hard
so um we do want this thing to be like
kind of tall because we want it to sit
in the middle we want the the turret's
output to sit in the middle
of of the of the vertical well we want
it to sit in the ve we want it pointing
directly at the middle of the canvas
okay um so if that's the
case
uh then these need to be like 3et so
we're going to sketch on here we're
going to do this exact same thing
luckily we still have the mid plane so
we can just do it again so G here
here that's going to be 1.5 and that's
going to be 3.5 okay then we're going to
extrude
this by 3
feet it's a
new look how absurdly tall that is
that's so
dumb dude that looks so goofy
I feel like I don't want to do that I
feel like I want to make it just like
two feet
tall
um yeah [__] it we'll we'll remake it
we'll remake it maybe we can make this
two what does this look like if it's
two that's like so much more reasonable
the only thing though is first
off how does this work
because you can't get screws into there
you go on this side but then this is in
so how do you get on that side so maybe
what you need to
do I don't I don't know how real
Woodworkers do
this me just do
this I can't
paste oh my God
bro
hello oh wait paste did work
okay for
uh pocket hole screws use a pocket hole
to drill angled
holes oh yeah I could get some more
brackets actually that's actually not a
bad idea
idea uh get more
brackets oh and you know what I didn't
even think about is the um the
hopper all right so we need to model the
hopper
too to
do CAD
so let's just move this
stuff to read
me okay it's so funny this process is so
silly okay
so what is
today 10
17 four all right so get more
brackets for the
table that's what just what we're going
to call we're just going to call it the
table I you got to call it
something uh okay and then CAD the
frame the T CAD the
table
uh
okay
CAD uh
yeah so we actually need three levels of
it don't
we o that's tough
actually
um CAD
PCB uh with
enclosure CAD power power
supply and PCB with an
enclosure I I'm going just going to
build a dead simple enclosure
um okay
uh yeah we have so much stuff to design
redesign
shooter to use worms and uh uh
bearings yeah the whole thing needs to
be redesigned I feel like I'm finally
ready to to do it too like I feel like I
understand how it's going to work I feel
like a month ago I just didn't I just
couldn't visualize it so I used those
pillars but it's it's time and then we
need to and this this should be fast um
but we need to model the
hopper yeah so CAD the table with the
hopper so that's actually going to be
kind of a big deal because we want to
get it right and I'm just still not
clear on how that's going to
work um that's 2
feet um yeah we could do that the only
thing
is oh yeah we need to model the bracket
too get more bracks and CAD
them yeah brackets are great the only
thing is that we need maybe shorter
screws but I got to take a [__] so hold
on
for
for e
e e
okay that's the do oh yeah and I had
another idea so you know in co-pilot you
can like ref refer to certain code or
like files it would be cool if in CAD if
you're doing text to CAD stuff you could
like click on a face and be like
add add a sketch with this you know so
because then it makes it way more
interactive cuz really like pure text to
CAD it's just too much to do in one go
it's like when you ask GPT write my
whole code base it's just too much and
there's not
enough Chain of Thought type of
thing okay um
so I do want to kind of plan this out
um do they sell short screws that are
like half an inch cuz that would be
pretty good if I mean there's four of
them on these
things oh jeez there's just so many
tasks okay
okay CAD
brackets CAD table CAD CAD bra that okay
yeah so this is like a sub thing of that
okay so we don't know which brackets
though because Home Depot had some
smaller ones cuz here let me show you
what I
have okay so I have two
types I
have these which are
longer which I feel like are totally
unnecessary for the 2 by the so there's
those and then there are these which are
let's see I don't know if it has
dimensions on them
strong tie
a33 er102 let's see if they give you a
cad that would be pretty
cool
um strong
tie a33 ER
r102
a33 does it have this specific 102 thing
in it no but I mean that is definitely
the
part um I think
3x3 this is probably 3x3 here I got a
tape measure I can figure that out
myself
yep oh yeah it's three from the inside
right
or no yeah it's one of those things
where it actually is directional not
that it really matters but if I were I
would going to I would want to do it
right let's see do they give you a
cad they even give you a
drawing do you spec sheet they they
probably give you a
drawing a102 is what we have right
for treated lumber
what is
this dude there's no way that you have
to use that [__]
thing um uh we just need to go I guess
we okay so we need
a
uh check we have screws for that bit
bracket also short ones
for uh the
plywood
okay so that is
that um
um where we at
here
so okay so let's
just CAD those I guess I I want to use
the sheet metal so it would actually be
fun so we're going to do I haven't used
the sheet metal
before um it says what material it is
too so we could do this right with the K
factor and everything like that carbon
steel
k k volume
50 okay so we should be able to and
what's the thickness of this thing does
it
say it's so weird that it doesn't give
you a
drawing you would expect all of these
places just give you CAD so that you can
load it
in I guess I guess it's more common for
like McMaster and stuff like that
because there you're actually catting it
whereas like stuff for wood is not
really galvanized steel beams okay
so let's just get it done we're going to
do sheet metal
model parts and servic to
create let's watch a
video uh onshape sheet
metal hey what's up everybody tutall
Toby here and stepbystep tutorial we're
going to take a look at a sheet metal
challenge so I'm very excited to get
into this this challenge comes from the
two t Toby playlist called practice
models you can see here that we've got a
lot of different practice models to
challenge in the world of 3D bro
actually how fun would that be okay I
got stuff to do but like should I do
this that' be fun if I just
like whatever metal challenge so let's
start the clock here and see how long it
takes us to complete this challenge now
as always what I recommend you do
whenever you're taking one of these
challenges is just start out by looking
at the 2D print and kind of coming up
with a game plan I think in the case of
this model I'm going to use the on shape
functionality that allows me to sketch
two lines in my first sketch and then
immediately extrude them as sheet metal
with the sheet metal bend features and I
only really need to create half of this
model because the model has symmetry we
can see here we've got center line
symmetry so I only need to create half
the model so my very first sketch will
be these two lines and I'll extrude them
out along this direction then I think my
second sketch is going to be well really
it won't be a sketch it'll just be a
feature I'll just pick this sharp edge
that I create in the first feature and
create a flange sticking out here at
four inches then for my third feature
what I'll do is I will cut away this
kind of triangular shape and then I'll
finish off the model by creating this
final flange here this little smaller
rectangular flange that's sticking out
yeah so this is clearly like a bracket
for a motor mount or something like that
then going through and adding the cuts
that's actually a nice part I like that
part so as always it's a great idea to
kind of come up with a game plan before
you get started with one of these
challenges I know it took kind of a
little bit of time took about a minute
to come up with that game plan but it's
really a good practice and it'll help
save you a lot of time in the long run
so let's create a new document here
we're going to create a new document
we're going to call this document 21-32
angle 2021 this is a public document so
anytime you get logged into on shape you
can search for this document and
actually see the feature tree and see
how I built this thing and now I'm going
to go into my workspace units and set
the workspace units to inches and to
pounds because this is a challenge in
IPS or inch pound seconds so we're going
to be working in inches here and we're
going to start out with a sketch on the
right plane so if you're brand new to
sheet metal well you should be able more
or less to follow along with this
tutorial and so I'm going to start out
on the right plane and I'm going to
start out by creating a line here which
comes right to the origin and has a
length of one inch and then I'm going to
create a second line which goes up in
this Direction with a length of 4 in and
once I have those two lines sketched I'm
going to exit my sketch and I'm going to
jump into the sheet metal command sheet
metal model the very first sheet metal
command now here at the top we've got
three options convert extrude Thicket
we're going to use this middle option
here for extrude then we're going to
pick these two sketch lines that we
created and we're happy to see that on
shape is able to immediately turn that
into an extruded sheet metal flange now
as far as our options and settings go
first option you're see here is so
that's literally basically all we have
to
do
um I do however want to because the bend
has to be on one of the sides of it
right like this is not perfectly
okay well we'll just measure okay so
that's all we have to
do but I am curious so okay so we're
going to do the same thing sketch
normal how did he do that
thing wait we in
um
yeah
ah wait what why can't I Dimension this
thing
oh this is three and this is three we
can just get it rough to start I think
but so we're going to do then this uh
finish
sheet and we going to do extrude and
we're going to take this and this
right see how
it okay Bend radius material K
factor it's
50 that doesn't sound right
what is the thickness here do we have
calipers where are my calipers
okay so
uh uh it's 100 thou
okay so this is going to be
0.1 and then I don't know about the B
rate so if we do this and then we were
to like Okay so we have this so if we
were to take the distance from that to
this we get 3 in and then if we were to
take the distance from this to this we'd
also get 3 in but that's not actually
correct because you need
to ORS to extrude his bends
right cuz what you actually want is um
you want here to here to be
three so wait so can
I let's go back and
what I think I want to do is okay let's
just delete this we're just learning so
I want
to yeah I want to do sheet metal model
of why can't I select this
thing there we go so this the
dep oh yeah I guess we don't have that
measurement it's one and a half
um the thickness is
1.1 so that's so that's this is all good
but now what we want to do is we want to
flange this
thing I guess I just click on this no
wait uh flip do they have a flip
okay uh so now see now if I do this
the distance from here to here oh I did
it wrong the distance from here oh I
could just do this uh I'm so bad
wait okay so wait when we do this flange
right an inner we want an outer no no no
what I'm so confused I thought
oh it's it's a hold line that's what it
is okay and then
this this is
three okay so wait so the distance so
this should be less than three okay
perfect but this should be three all
right see this is correct we have done
it and then I don't really care about
the bend radius to be honest but uh
um is it yeah three to the or three to
the other face yeah okay so I I hope I
answered that so I think it's um because
it's not symmetrical if I take my if I
take my my tape measure and I measure
one of them is three to the opposite
face but then the other one is
right is three okay so we did it
correctly I know I I'm positive that
this is correct um so now we just got to
get the whole placement I really wish
they just provided me a drawing like I'm
kind of shocked that we don't get a
drawing or maybe we do get a drawing
let's see
I
guess that is so silly okay whatever
let's just measure how hard is it to do
some
measurement
okay
um oh yeah what is the whole diameter
we're going to need to measure the ho
diameter so I'm going to so we're going
to start to upgrade this
thing all right so it's 100 50
th so let's just start to make some
variables so this is going to be whole I
am and this is
150 okay
um yeah let's make well okay we can play
a little quick and dirty I don't need to
measure that I don't need to make a
variable for the thickness but that I
would like to keep just so that I don't
forget it
um okay so let's just just measure the
distance to the
thing okay so they're kind of staggered
which is a interesting design I don't
really know why they did that all right
so we're going to call that it's at 289
but I'm going to call it
300 so it's 300
plus
the and is it from the Ed Ed or is it
from the center that's the interesting
thing too it's from The
Edge okay we're going to call
this we're going to oversize it a little
bit I've learned that these measurements
they can be off cuz I'm getting four or
540 for the other one so oh and then
from The Edge we should measure from The
Edge 250 on the DOT
it's probably okay
so I say hole from side is 250 thou
let's just make a variable so I don't
forget um
ho
or Edge to whole
Edge uh let's say I don't even know how
you refer to this side edge I don't know
but this is
250 um
okay so we can start a sketch now oh
wait we need one more measurement
though okay we're going to say that's an
inch it's at 960
but I don't know 960 is pretty far off
from one inch I'm not I don't really
want to uh
let's just model as 967
then but okay if it's
150 I if the whole dam is
then it should be 96 + 150 which is
1.1 that's a little suspicious okay
let's sketch on here so we're going to
do a circle
here and from this Edge to this Edge is
thou let's just double check cuz I am
very prone to forgetting this kind of
thing I'm going zero it out
again 292
I don't
know 290 should I say
290 oh wait yeah wait first off 290 not
250 this is um let's just keep it as
what it
is um this is going to be hold
Dam and then is that that's to the edge
right so this is going to be side edge
to okay so then that that's good now we
just need to make another Circle here
these two are
equal um the distance
from this rim to this Rim is um what did
we say so it was like
0.966 or something like that yeah I'm
kind of suspicious of that okay then
this is going to be horizontally con
what oh
wait do I do oh yeah I always get that
backwards okay
um
cool I forgot the other one
already
540 540
okay we're going to just do another
Circle down Circle down here this and we
do another Circle here here we might as
well uh we're going to say
this and this are
vertical this this and this are equal
the distance from here to here is side
whatever then the distance from here to
here is
0.5
40 and then the distance from here to
here yeah so wait let's make a variable
for that so we're going to do whole all
right variable whole spacing
and this is going to be
966 or
something I don't know it's kind of a
weird
number how satisfying is it when all the
numbers line up perfectly so this is
whole
spacing this is whole
spacing great um does that look right
that looks pretty
good so yeah how do you copy this
sketch yeah
cuz our datm
is
well right
um whatever we could just do it again I
mean I'm sure there's a faster way
but how hard is it okay so we're just
going to take all of these circles and
we're going
to can I just do hole is that all I have
to do that's so annoying okay
it would be nice if there was a quicker
way than doing extrude oh nice okay sort
of um sort of got it but I like in this
instance you kind of want it to default
to up to next but whatever all right so
we're all good let's just do it on this
side
again normal I want it to be like
this okay so we're just going to do c
c c c
okay D
equal
vertical do do vertical distance from
here to here ah oh yeah we can do that
so this is going to be whole
dim okay then the distance from here to
here is
side then the distance from here to here
is side and then the distance from here
to here should have made these
variables um I think this was like two
oh yeah okay wait so we got to go back
so let's make some variables
uh can be short hole edge to edge I
don't know what the hell these things
mean I think it was 240 right no it was
like
290 yeah we're making it 290
and then the long one was
long whole edge to edge and this is5 540
okay so now we just want to go and edit
this sketch so that everything is all
parametric so this is going to be
long and this is going to be
short and then this we can now
make
short
and
long awesome now what is unconstrained
about this thing oh yeah
okay whole
spacing whole spacing all right cool so
now we can just take all of these
guys strw
remove up to next all right so this part
is done that was not so bad I don't know
how long it took us but it wasn't so bad
how do I get the
radius um of the hole or the the radius
of this CU I didn't I didn't get the
radius of this at all I just sort of
actually you know what that's that is a
good point huh because if we take this
and this
that's 190 over let's just take a
measurement and
see cuz we could I
mean we might as
well okay that's
three this is
like uh
140 13 five
over Okay so let's say
um is that the radius
though so it's close but yeah we we do
want to make this flange a little
different
so wait but do we not get a radius
wait if you do iner do you get a no you
don't wait I'm kind of confused though
oh do I have to do it in
here Bend radius okay so we want this to
be so that's Point that's 90
thou and the distance it added was a
little under
200 so yeah so it's dividing it in half
I guess so wait let's just say that it's
then okay if we do that oh wait okay
that's yeah right I added a zero okay so
we oh wait wrong thing we want this to
be 065 65
thou okay now if we measure the distance
from this face to this face okay we're
getting closer that's not exactly right
but it's close enough for our purposes
especially considering wait is it yeah
especially considering what it's going
to be attaching to is
like uh like there are no holes that
need to line up this thing is just
connecting wood and I'm not going to be
pre-drilling or measuring any of that
I'm just going to go into
it okay so that looks pretty good so
let's just rename this to um small
bracket
since I'm kind of in the mood should we
just do the big one I mean we might as
well I want the model to be
correct I it is very odd that they don't
um so let's make a new part
Studio we're going to call
this uh rename and this is going to be
big
bracket oh so wait so what we actually
want to do dude this is one of the more
annoying things about on shape I want to
just transfer this to a
freaking uh variable Studio I just want
to take all of these and make it into a
variable Studio I don't know why that's
not a feature but it really should be um
in any
case um let's just hammer it out so I'm
just going to make a variable Studio
here and we're just going to
um uh oh yeah that's not what I want
okay fine so we're going to do small
bracket open in a new browser tab we're
just going to do this
okay so uh yeah so we're going to prefix
it with bracket ho diam so we're going
to have to do a whole bunch of renaming
but that's okay uh bracket side edge to
whole
Edge okay uh bracket ho
spacing uh bracket short Edge Short
hole hole edge
to
edge bracket long hole edge to
edge I don't naming schemes are
something that I really wish someone
would tell me some best practices for
cuz this is just stupid okay so this is
all we need but now we just need to put
these
in5 uh we I guess I do want thickness
um I earlier I said that I didn't want
thickness but I actually do because now
we're going to do the other bracket this
is
966 this one's kind of random um
presumably that oh that's not the same
actually so this is so in this this is
going to be
bracket this is going to be small
bracket so that one we didn't really
need to put in here but that's okay
short hole 29 I think that that actually
might be the same and then I think this
one might also be the same okay so
uh um if I rename this it should update
H whatever we're just going
to whatever I'll do it later that's so
lame okay uh we do want the thickness
though so when I did
this it was 100 thou yeah so okay so uh
bracket thickness and this is going to
be 100 thou Okay
cool so let's just move on because I I
really don't uh care all that much so
we're going to get on the right plane
let going to sketch go normal draw a
line this line is going to go from here
to here and we're going to Dimension
this to be
four and a
half okay so big
bracket
length this is going to be 4.5 okay so
that's okay oh wait we forgot to okay I
[__] this up uh this is going to be big
bracket length okay
awesome okay now we want to go sheet
metal model
extrude
this um the depth is going to be oh yeah
bracket depth I think they're both one
uh
1.5
yep all right so uh this is
1.5 it's going to be bracket
depth okay thickness is going to be
bracket thickness Bend radius we're
going to keep that bend radius the same
but I'm going to do a I'm going to use
the calipers in a minute just to verify
that at some point uh so this is all
good now we want to
flange uh this
Edge and um it's going to be in a hold
line and the distance this is going to
be
a big bracket length all right sick so
so now we just need to sketch on here
and then I do want to let's see what's
different I think that I think the only
thing that's different is the whole
spacing okay uh 1.84
five so we should I round up so 1 Point
1.85 that's what we're going to do so
big bracket ho spacing is
1.85 okay so now we can just do our
thing circle circle circle circle select
select select
select uh equal this this vertical this
this vertical and
then it's clearly the same but OCD I got
to measure this thing just to make
sure oh wait this is the wrong one wait
first off
what wait what
oh my gosh wait
what wait on this side is 290 and on
this side it's
300 it's three it's actually
315 all right I I don't really care I
should just put it at I should just
split the difference and make it. three
right I got to take a piss I'll be
back
e
e e
all right let's get it
so uh yeah
honestly yeah it's honestly whatever so
let's just
um let's just keep moving I'm not going
to adjust the old ones just cuz they're
like 10 thou off or
whatever 272
why am I getting such random you would
think that these things are like so
accurate three oh that's so Random bro
okay that must mean that
they're they're measuring
from something
else I wonder how these things are made
it's actually so interesting to think
about these tiny differences because
there is got to be a reason for it it's
just so weird to me cuz like okay from
this Edge is
270 from this
Edge is 320 so there's a 50 difference
in well what am I talking about
well I guess there's
a 25,000 deviation from symmetry there
symmetry from these
edges um
but honestly let's just keep keep it
pushing man so we're going to say that
this is uh small or wait what um short
yeah we're just going to keep it the
same okay the this one honestly none of
these whole Dimensions
matter but I just I just feel the need
this is 280
okay we're going to make it 280 cuz I
think I think that one does sort of make
sense yeah and if you line them up they
don't line
up wait but
actually wait hold
on dude it's so funny the more you look
into this part the more you're like wait
what the hell all these assumptions that
you thought were yeah man what the hell
okay so this thing isn't even the holes
aren't even equally spaced the ones on
the this is 320 and then this is
250 okay all right I I don't care
anymore I wanted to do it right when I
thought it would be easy but not anymore
okay
um so let's just
um that was 320 okay whatever we're
going to make this uh edge to
edge side
oh oh that that's I hate that you have
to click and then side and okay it's all
right
uh it's probably different too but we're
just going to do uh what is it called
long no long long yeah okay and then the
spacing is not the
same which I will put in so big spacing
big spacing okay what is still
unconstrained here oh this I am pretty
sure the whole diameter is the same but
I will check
that whole diameter
is 150
cool what
all
right
cool yeah I wonder if there's a way to
copy this sketch all right we're going
to try to look into that because that
would make this a whole lot
easier remove up to next okay so we're
going to take this sketch can we copy
sketch I thought there was a thing like
copy sketch
then what happens if I just click on
this and paste it
uh I have a sketch on one face in on
shape and I'm wondering if I can just
copy that to another
face I understand why it's not like so
I feel like might might be making that
up whatever let's just uh let's just
hurry this thing up
what yeah that's right
okay
all right cool so we're done now when
we're looking at this
table
um yeah I'm wondering I don't I don't
think we bought any oh I mean I didn't
buy any 2x4s yet
so I think we're good on that so I could
switch these to be 1.5s and then just Ed
one of the small
brackets let's see I
wonder this sketch no it's not wait it's
not that SK oh it is that sketch so
instead of this we're going to do 1.5 by
1.5
um yeah I want to do this right with the
Fasteners too so we need like well this
is we need short screws there so I might
as well go look for some screws I
guess
um and then uh and then
um I really don't know what I'm going to
do about this Hopper I feel
like
uh do these twoot by two foot is
actually huge
though I almost wish I went like 1.5 by
1.5 if this
was what the [__] just happened okay
okay well whatever
um okay I just kind of want to start an
assembly so we're going to we're going
to go
to this
sketch we're going to
use no but okay wait if I use brackets
then 1.5 is like fine
let's just use 1.5s they're they're so
cheap I mean the two the 2x4s are also
cheap it would actually be interesting
to look at pricing of lumber with
respect to
like cut odity like if you're getting a
really weird cut like a
what like a 3X3 or something like who
the hell is selling those like it's so I
wonder what the premium is for odd Cuts
because 2x4 is probably the most common
no I don't know if that's true there was
a lot of one buys actually one buys was
probably the most common thing I saw
when I went to the hardware
store cuz there was like a a one by you
know I don't know if there's a 1ex one
there's probably a 1 by one I think
there was even a 1 by a half but then it
went all the way up to 1 by 12 and I
think it spaced it started getting
spaced up to by 2 in but it's just
interesting to think about you know what
sizings they actually sell cuz you can
put anything in CAD but if you can
actually you know you might not actually
be able to build it um anyways I think
I'm going to just make them all
1.5s so 2T
there this should be fine um I mean
we're going to find out I mean this wood
and these brackets are so cheap that
this whole thing is going to be
like 40 bucks or something actually the
the most expensive thing actually was
these plywoods these plywoods were
really expensive relatively I mean it
was 15 bucks but like still you know for
each of them so 30 total so actually
yeah this probably was like 40 bucks so
let's
um let's do these mirror things wait can
I select multiple mirror no that's not
how that works all right so I got to do
this thing again it's kind of annoying
actually wait can we just oh you know
what we can do um we're going to take
these mirrors and we're going to move
him down and we're going to do this oh
that's so much better
bro hell
yeah that's so nice
Okay um
all right so I want to make an
assembly and this is going to be the
table assembly so first we're going to
insert the
table and then we're going to insert the
and we're going to use all small
brackets here but now the tough thing I
think is going to be can you just click
R to rotate
this how do
you actually cuz these mates are
not you can't use the
center I almost want like a constraint
based
system like I want to pick specific oh
oops all right let's just add
one and then wait we want to we want to
like group wait hold on
we going to group
these
um now that's interesting I didn't
really think about that
I don't know what the recommended way to
do this
is
um because yeah look these can all be
moved around right
so let's just fix the top plate so we're
going to take this fix it and then we
want to
oh wait could we just do corner to
corner that might be the
easiest so we're going to take which
part is this can we get part two here
okay so we're going to do a mate of this
corner facing up
to
this
wait that's part
one and now I want part
oh what is what is that all about
man I'm almost positive this just is
going to deselect the whole
thing then how do you do it oh my
gosh it's freaking annoying
man all right what if we try the
center I mean that that there's got to
be a better way to do this this is going
to deselect the other thing
right I wish there was like the in
place H bro what the hell
I feel like we I feel like the right
thing to do is just group yeah that's
what we're going to do we're just going
to take this to here wait cancel this
this to here and group
them okay cool so we have a and there's
actually no parametric timeline on
assemblies which it sort of makes sense
but like something to
okay so now if I move the okay so this
is fixed and these are now all fixed by
transitivity but now the question is how
do we
place this because if I try to take this
mate and then I select this it's going
to be so either we calculate what it's
supposed to
be see what I wish you could do is you
could offset Z and you can select this
face I feel like you can do that
in I'm pretty sure you can do that in
fusion
um yeah but see what is the math there
that's so annoying
and the interesting thing okay wait a
planer
mate if you do this this can move now oh
what by members of the same
group what's in the
group let's undo
that this has degrees of freedom okay
um and we want to make this
a
planer okay so this still has degrees of
freedom so basically what I want
to wait
what oh it's on the the wrong plane wait
no is
it why is it why is that just not do
anything oh maybe it is wait let me
try if I move this out
here okay yeah it snapped it too
okay but now what I want to do is
another planer mate so we're going to
mate oh wait how do I get a planer
mate whatever so we're going to take
this guy and this guy and we're going to
say that this is planer as well so what
I'm wondering is cuz that will that's
like effectively a constraint thing
that's not what I wanted
um I think
that see that's fastened but I actually
want it to only be fastened in
oh animate degrees of freedom is nice
slider yeah that's not what I
want what is the way
to take my
bracket and cuz I want to do it without
having to
freaking assembly linear p
pattern okay yeah I want to get Advanced
on the assembly
because well why don't we just do a
little bit of math math is not that
scary for
the only thing that worries me though is
um we want the long we want the long
Edge so we're going to do a pattern I
wonder if you can pattern there's a
linear pattern but I wonder if there's
a ball mate I've never seen ball
mate show mates mode oh yeah I know what
that is there a snap
mode replicate
instance okay so hold on
okay so let's just make sure that we
know which is
which
so what we want to do is we want to get
a measurement of here to here okay so
that's three okay so that means that
this when we mate this it's
1.5 and this thing is
12 so actually wait what we could
do so it's delete this
guy
uh okay wa let's take let's just do this
would actually make it I mean it's about
the same difficulty but we go
here and we go here and then we want to
offset this in y
by three
the frustrating thing about that is that
it doesn't actually
like that's sort of why it would be nice
to put holes into the wood but like
that's that's Overkill man okay so we we
have one of the brackets done now we
need to
replicate match
faces wait
wait how does replicate
work where is
it o okay wait can we try that that
sounds sick
actually
first mate to be
matched okay wait can we look up onshape
assem onshape
assembly replicate how does that
work so this be a quick demo on how to
use the uh replicate feature here so
first I'm going to insert the parts that
I'm going to be Ming together so I've
got my bearing plate I've got uh my
bearing
wheel and let's go
I'm go ahead and first I'm going to make
this bearing plate to the bearing tube
so you see these two make connectors
together and then going to mate just the
bearing first to the bearing plate like
this so now typically you might think
you know I just select this and copy
paste it you know as many times as I
need to and then make those but this
replicate feature it allows it saves you
all those steps of meeting so here first
I'm going to select my instances so
these two parts I'd like to replicate
and you see this this blue highlighted
Circle so that was the um uh the mate uh
the mate mating Edge on the sparing
plate and then I can uh select match
individual edges here and I can
replicate uh these set of parts to
whatever reference I I that's sick okay
wait
so but you have to select an
edge that's not really clear that we can
do that okay so wait
um okay so what we want to replicate is
this
oh there you
go but look how many it
added match
faces no
yeah um hold on we're getting we're
getting it match individual faces
yeah it's ambiguous
right wait but you know what we could
do so let's cancel
this ah The Crow
the
crows whatever we're
good we're going to just let the
universe hopefully they're in a chill
they're in a chill
Vibe okay
so what we want to
do wait I wonder if we can take
this so you can't reselect this one
because it's going to pick the same one
okay that seems pretty good what's wrong
with this missing
selections um
so we want to make
wait why doesn't it
see what is
that that's not what we want
wait maybe I have to do it one at a
time
replicate this
part um it's going to be M individual
faces oh wait
so let's put it up there we're going to
do all four of these well let's just try
it for one of
them presumably that'll be okay so we're
going to do this and then we're going to
do replicate
again and we're going to do this top one
and it's going to be individual faces
and we're going to select this oh nice
okay yeah it's kind of goofy but um
that's okay
1 2 3 four five
six one two three four five six seven
did I miss one one two 3 4 5
six whoa
wait why is there only
six oh I think CU I already did one or
something like that I'm not sure we'll
check at the end so now this replicate
they get them all let's
see 1 two 3
4 five six seven okay I think we got
them all oh except for that
Okay
cool so yeah that's um that's like way
Overkill but that is kind of what I was
imagining
um so now the tough part is that it's
yeah it's just like kind of annoying
because all right so
so we want to also
guess yeah so I guess it I guess
it I guess uh I'll have to do it again
for
those actually can I just do replicate
again and try
replicate this uh instances this thing
wait how oh that's you can only do it
on yeah so that's not going to
work okay that's
okay so we need to copy
and we want to do a mate of
this
to there right oh that's actually way
better I don't know why I didn't do
that no wait we need
to wait we need
to rotate about
why
oops wait
um wait but then we also need
to oh
wait no maybe there isn't a
way yeah
so maybe the easiest way is you just do
this to
this
you wait why is this being so
weird here we need to rotate this about
y by minus
90 and then we need to offset by y
by and this should be
uh two
1T minus 3 in so this should be 9
in
perfect
okay so now we want to do a replicate
again and it's going to be this part and
it's going to be individual faces and
it's going to be this face
that's what I'm saying bro what what is
going on
there I don't know why
it I mean I just don't give it enough
information
that's so goofy so is there even a way
to do
it and it's wild because it
yeah replicate just doesn't do really
what I want it to do all right but how
hard is it to hammer
out eight of these kind of annoying
actually oh and actually you know what
something else I didn't think about is
that these screws are going to be lined
up
maybe we could use a bolt but the thing
is what kind of bolts can we use that's
150 thou that's not even that
thick um we would want to offset
them we could use long ones
here I feel like that's a pretty good
solution we just use the big ones so we
delete this and then we insert a um big
bracket I still wish replicate sort of
did what I wanted I think you know what
I I think I could
do well we don't have an edge but if we
if we made a
um I wonder if you can get the line of
two intersecting planes you probably can
somehow but I wonder how easy it is
because it we we could do a rotation
around the center of this thing and do a
90 the thing is it doesn't copy the mate
right
um maybe it does it probably does fix
it linear relation what does that
mean oh this could be what I want wait
so okay so let's do the
mate so we are going to make the um wait
can we check that we want the long one
to be on the plywood I think that that's
looks right so we're going to get this
guy to the center point
here no so there's that so that's good
all right that's all we need we just
need to offset y by - 9 right no no it's
not going to be minus 9 it's going to be
12 -
4.5 okay I want to do a linear I want to
do try this linear thing I feel like it
makes sense too assembly linear
pattern linear
relation I don't think that does what
wanted to
do I want to try this so instances this
thing axis of pattern this
thing oh
you need a circular
Edge that's the filter on this
thing oh
[__] oh God
damn okay so let's do
that and what's the what's the original
one it's this one
going to copy paste this
thing going to
mate oops that's the wrong Edge
mate
that
to
a wait what the [__] oh wait we we're
going to have to okay so that's right we
need to then F
this oh wait now we got to do this okay
there we go and now we just got to
offset
y by 12 - 4.5
right
sick okay now we're going to take this
circular pattern move it below do this
and then also select this part all right
that worked out really well okay so
that's what you're supposed to do is
just use a circular pattern with a mate
connector all
right so this is what it is I mean if
you think about this this is 2 4 6 8 16
dude this thing is like plus uh eight
more those are three bucks each so wait
so 16 + 8 24
* three $72 on yeah so we we clearly
don't need
this many
brackets um but presumably we can just
keep moving
forward presumably we can keep moving
forward
um I'm going to make some breakfast now
now that we have something going I'm
going to eat some food
oh and I really want to try the wires
custom feature cuz wiring
wiring is the worst but it's also
like if it's modeled maybe you have a
better sense of how it actually will
look like cuz right now when it's a
tangled mess of wires and you don't know
the length of them and all sorts of
stuff it just it becomes so cumbersome
that's actually why I'm building this
thing is mainly just so that I have an
easy thing I can move around disassemble
disassemble it Test new
things cuz that big table is just too
cumbersome
um but we have so much left to do like
this is not even done because we need
something that to go on the top of this
for the hopper but I don't know how tall
the shooter
is because we need to redesign
it speaking of where is that thing
okay so this
was is this just the test to see if we
can move this
thing yeah I'm I'm I'm actually sort of
down to print something like this so
basically I bought these bearings
they're like
uh I fear that if I go into Amazon I'm
going to leak a bunch of
[__] okay never mind
so um let's look up
um 100 mm
bearing so I bought I bought these I
bought two of these but they're they're
very greased up and there's a lot of
friction
look at these see these ball bearings
these probably roll really nicely but
like we do not need something that needs
to take a lot of force it just needs to
be
big but it just doesn't seem like a
common part like it's like if you're
building something like this then it's
meant to take a huge load but like
I honestly I'm very inexperienced when
it comes to knowing about these like
I've seen stuff about thrust bearings
but I I it's like it can handle a
different direction of load but I I
don't
know um in any case we're going to try
to make it work with these because it
seems like this is the I was going to
get these but it's like do I really need
to spend $15 per
part um
cuz like these bearings are for things
that yeah
like all I need is the low fre ition
interface I really don't need it to
handle I mean
yeah this thing isn't going in a lath
it's it's just a little it barely even
moves uh but okay
so
maybe we are going to try to finish and
print this so
let's see we're going
to this is a really stupid design
though we might as well try to get this
thing angled get that that all settled
because if we look
at this do we even have oh wait is it in
assembly
3 yeah so this was sort
of closer to what I want but I need to
do some math
about getting the teeth to mesh where
the teeth need to be but if we could do
that then we should just print this as a
first prototype
because what is the freaking distance
between
that Center disc is that what I want
yeah so that's dude that's way too thin
we'll adjust that but that's this is
basically what I'm what I'm looking for
is this hollow yeah this is hollow so it
shouldn't and and plus printing this uh
there's no supports
required um presumably there's no
supports required on this part either
because of this angle we can change this
fillet or chamfer oh yeah actually this
was a sketch entity because of the
revolve so we can we can fix that to be
steep
enough well maybe it would have to be
asymmetrical because
no if we just make it 45 on both sides
then it it honestly might already be
45 which sketch is it if we click on
this
this should give me a over constrained
okay I guess
not yeah we just need to make sure we
have enough
room I actually really like this
design there's a bunch of stuff I
dislike about it I mean this 10 mm plate
that's
uh 200 mm in diameter is going to take
literally a year to
print
so I don't
know maybe we should a slim down version
just to
test I mean
honestly let's see with a module
honestly I wonder if I could decrease
the
module CU that that would be pretty nice
if we could get a
higher wait actually does that even
change anything maybe it doesn't
okay make some
food
for
e
e e
okay I'm back with food
all right so what's needed
exactly we need to calculate what I need
to buy at Home Depot cuz I'm going to go
to Home Depot in an hour
and then I need to okay before I need to
go I need to check what Fasteners I
have and then I think we're just going
to start building this
thing I mean it would be fun to do a big
woodworking
day three or four hours just woodworking
um yeah I mean all of this doesn't need
to be 10
we could basically just take
this oh you need to switch
to you definitely don't want to edit in
context that's a scary scary thing going
take this switch
to going take this face and just extrude
this
move oh wait uh
five so you could just do this right so
then you still have
the 10 holding the
bearing and it's strong but then you
just don't need to waste all this
material
yeah it's kind of interesting
prototyping is a very tricky thing right
cuz
like should I okay what I'm thinking
about is building a uh prototype of the
the worm drive to control the
Tilt and so the basically the thing that
goes on top of this
plate
and I could either build like a totally
separate thing or I could just build it
to go on top of what I already
have dud I got to do some serious
organization too all my parts are
getting mixed up
I think this is the one that's insanely
impressive no I forget there was one
that was like crazy good
that's kind of a cool looking part
I want to look at the cad
competitions I think it's on his own
channel
right they do it like every Wednesday
right well I hate to be the one to you
guys Fusion does havei Anda design built
into it
I love this [__] got titanium from colia
our number five seed and he's going up
against krisy Co from Australia the
number 11 seed awesome so yeah let's
kick it up so you got titanium going on
he's been using inventors since 2019
participated in a four-year degree in a
robotics group as well he is obsessed
with robotics arms and if I remember
correctly doesn't he also 3D print and
create robotics arms I think he may on
top of that I think he may awesome so
outside of that we also have crispy Co
over on the other side and named his son
after Toby I guess the question is is
did that happen before or after he got
onto this Channel and started watching
the content outside of that is saying
Sol work is one tricky Pony I think
every software is but the great thing
with people like Toby and myself is
we're here to train you in a way that
you understand and can follow through
and he is awake at 3:00 a.m. so I guess
again another question on my end did he
wake up at 3:00 a.m. or is he's still
running from the day before right yes
yeah that is a great question we
actually we did ask that question a
little while back and we got to find out
in the chat we got have the chat let us
know if you know what you think if
chrisy Co is still awake from before or
if he is uh you know just getting just
getting going now all right guys I'm
very excited to show off this first
model that we have created for you today
don't forget to hit that like button hit
it now and then of course when I flash
the model on the you guys are going to
have a chance to take a screen capture
as well so let's flip over to full
screen this first I love this between
titanium our number five SE from colia
running inventor and chrisy Co our
number 11 seed from Australia running
solid works begins in three two one go
what is the mass of this XXX G the
tolerance is plus or minus 2 G you'll
notice that this is a tier five part but
I warned you in the beginning Phil that
these models today are a little bit a
little bit tough they're all kind of
right at at the peak between tier five
and tier six you can see that this part
has the same geometry pattern in it
three places at 120 it is a weather
station fan uh W gios says gez in the
chat our Runners have grabed a screen
capture hopefully you and the audience
have grabb a screen capture let's see
how they attack this thing man it's such
a challenge in this tournament you have
to first come up with a A you know just
like a basic overview of what the print
looks like and then you have to start
figuring out what your first feature is
going to be and sometimes if you make
the wrong decision on your first feature
it can really screw you up for the rest
of the of the model I would just say
guys take your time take a look at this
print come up with a game plan don't
feel like you got to jump right into it
it's a tier five model so you got time
to catch up wow wow wow what a model I
tell you what it's kind of funny that
this is the first part to come up I was
just joking with my wife that we have
solar trackers and puppies and if you
can imagine my puppies actually just
chewed up how would you do this this is
a tough part
man I you got the rotational
symmetry but it's oh my gosh but like
this part like what do you do I don't
even know myometer out there on one of
my solar trackers so I might have to get
a copy of these models after the game
and go ahead and print one out and
replace it yeah for sure yeah it was
funny we when we had the tournament a
couple years ago uh I had a part that
was uh that was in my house it was part
from my hot tub that had broken and then
I held up the actual physical parts of
the screen I was like I'm just tricking
all these guys into modeling these parts
so I
can that's right we need we need one of
those print Farms as a sponsor now so
then we could just send it off and get
it done you know that that TurnKey like
our current sponsors for Sheet Metal and
design exactly just print everything out
so we are seeing quite a difference
though go around on strategies getting
into this so I think we have somebody
going for kind of a profile and a spin
as well as somebody starting out with an
individual feature yeah exactly if we
were to a lot of times in training we
take a model like this and we break it
down in different sections so we might
call that Center section The Hub and
then we might call that cup section like
one of the domes and so we see the
titanium on the left is working on that
Dome shape and we see Krispy Co on the
right is working on the Hub he's kind of
taking a look at that section view that
was presented in the 2D print we had a
section view of that kind of Hub region
so chriso is working from that section
View and trying to get that section view
geometry into that Hub area where uh we
see the titanium instead is taking on
that Dome shape but I think there's
Merit to both you know the Dome shape is
obviously an anchor for the external uh
perimeter of the part so that makes
sense but doing the Hub right the middle
also makes sense so definitely Merit to
both I tell you what uh being on the
Mach side not so much on the design side
I would much rather in this case machine
something like this than have to design
it I feel yeah well I mean this may go
ahead this may be tier five design but
it's about a tier three in the world of
Machining okay all right good nice and
easy to machine we like that not too
many undercuts or
anything well this definitely is a
tricky part it's it's you know I think
that where crispy Co is working right
now looking from the top this is where
things are going to get interesting
because when you have a pattern like
this you have to decide would it be
easier to just draw the whole thing at
once or would it be easier to draw one
and try to pattern it and obviously we
you know we always encourage people to
draw one in pattern it but sometimes you
know that when you have to get Geometry
to Al line in a pattern like this you
know like a not a a nice even number
it's an odd number you have to get
things to Al line you have to get edges
to a line you know I can definitely see
our Runners taking either approach no
100% agreed completely I mean on my side
of it too is do you start with a pie or
you try to or a pie slice versus the
whole pie you you know attempt one thing
and kind of these tier five parts are to
the point where I think we're going to
see some people start over occasionally
cuz there's going to be that got you
wait a minute I should have did this
before that right yeah the full restart
like when you have a sketch that you
just can't solve it's funny you say that
because when I was auditing this part I
ended up having a full restart because I
was trying to create that sketch for the
arm that's sticking out and it just
fought me the whole time and I was like
forget it full restart like scrap
everything start over and sometimes
that's that's just the faster way to get
to the end oh correct completely I tell
you what though it is it is nice to
always see even though I do sell and
support inventor as a secondary is the
similarities again between all the
software is this crazy clo now on shape
on a cell phone you know at a picnic
bench at Park might be a little bit of a
different argument but I can say if we
can classify that me personally remoting
into my computer with AET is close to
that same kind of concept sure yeah sure
yeah and that's the thing is that like
the when I teach the beginners class the
beginner training class you know we use
a terminology a parametric feature-based
3D CAD modeler well you know as long as
your CAD modeler is a parametric feature
based 3D CAD modeler it's going to be
more similar than different to all the
other parametric feature-based 3D CAD
modelers so those are really the the key
the key terms that you use then you get
into some differences architecture
structured in the background and things
like that but yeah this is uh both of
our Runners you know although crispy Co
started out with the then created the
Dome we can see the titanium started out
with the Dome and now is creating the
Hub and they're basically going to end
up in about the same spot correct I mean
again as I tell everybody there's no
real wrong way to do it is there a more
efficient sure but
as these guys feel like they've just
eaten and they're gonna they're goingon
to poop all over the
place all right so let's get out of here
that's the Stream